Warsword Conquest Winds of Magic Beta


A very BIG thank you to Games Workshop for making such a great Fantasy setting.
Warhammer online and Mark of Chaos PC games for model ideas etc and hours of fun playing time.
Warhammer Fantasy Battle Reporter Forum for all the great Warhammer Army Books (fan made & unofficial).


Credit:s

This is an honest and faithful attempt to list down all those who works have helped make warsword what it is over the last 8 years. If you notice that anyone that we have forgotten please contact a team member immediately. Thank you to everyone who has contributed.

Current Warsword Conquest Team

Mod Leader and coder: Nameless Warrior
Coder: Gsanders
Modeller: Kraggrim
Models and effects: Burspa
Models and optimisation: Marshal_157

Community manager: Polloio


Credit for latest release: 

Kraggrim for a wealth of quality models including chaos (both original and ammendments of the Grim age models), chaos dwarf, beastmen, trolls, ogres, hobgoblins, chaos scenes, main menu image and many more throughout the mod. Without his time and dedication this release would not have been possible.

Burspa (Paul Burston) for making the multitude of special effects for the magic system as well as some models. 

Marshal_157 for making some models and for his tireless pursuit of of optimisation to make the in battle framerates and loading times much faster than before, especially in heavy scenes.

Gsanders for the major undertaking of the diplomacy merge and for many other coding tricks and treats he has built up over the years. Much appreciation for his work on the world map frame rate too.

Polloio for his dedication as community manager on modddb and taleworlds and for contributing quality new character creation blurbs as well as the new chaos dwarf voices.



swyter for font maker
vrynn and gathering storm for a couple of particle effects


Scherbyna for particle effect (fire shot if used)

http://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php?topic=299919.msg7404074#msg7404074


cmpxchg8b, AgentSmith and K700 for warband script extender
El Gauncho for fire arrows
Weren for red sabre
superfunnysheet for demon sound
procrastination pictures for demon choir
Steve c for buffalo sound effects
freesfx.co.uk for free sounds use http://www.freesfx.co.uk url 
Mathias Eliasson for army books
Thanks to sound effects public domain channel
reenactor for musket sounds
gutekfiutek for polished landscapes
James flying missiles
Jacobhinds for new musket effects
DtheHun for daemonette base
suguroku team for nippon horses
maldorndk- chaos dwarf banners
iboltax improved faces
vasili s for scenery base
jbvw for potion icons




Contributors and all those who have worked with me on Warsword or Warsword Conquest in the past or helped us out.


Freelance Modellers: Dankmar and Articcactus
You1
TheMageLord
Jargondarot
Kazzan
Captain Melon
Gorgutz
Praylak
Brutun
Draegor Redfields
Emperor Milton
Berserker Pride
grailknighthero
Jubal
QuailLover
Nema
Crossbow Joe
chimera_t
joebow
Travis
spak
Horla
Count of Flanders
Birger Jarl
Captain Freakout
Dorfus145


Credits for previous releases:

Featuring Music by nox arcana

Phlpp for his excellent Gekokujo models to make the new Nippon faction and to improve human faces in warsword. Further credits from the Gekokujo models:

Bogmir's Samurai Weapons OSP (two bows, two arrow quivers, and two yari spears)
http://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,210160.0.html
Iboltax's Improved Male Faces OSP
http://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,163242.msg3948767.html
Runico's Katanas (ironically enough, for the "chinese" weapons)
http://www.mbrepository.com/file.php?id=2228

Furok and the Grim age team for the incredibly detailed Chaos and Empire armours.
To the Brytenwalda team with special thanks to Adorno and Phaiak for the sea battles scripting and models.
To the Sundering team (total war) for allowing us to port their models and textures across to warsword. All models and textures in warsword which are from the sundering mod remain the property of the Sundering team.
Also credited by the Sundering team for their models:
Electronic Arts, Mythic Entretainment and BioWare for some stuff from Warhammer Online used on this mod.
Black Hole Games for some stuff from Mark of Chaos used on this mod.
Credit to Theddd1 for the many hours he spent porting and tweaking the Sundering armours and also to del for further tweaks changes.
Crusader Way to Epiation team OSP for the new Araby models 
b@rtu$ for The Deluge mod use for the kislev faction
  Dodge concept coding:  Xenoargh, then extended by GSanders and Nameless Warrior

  list management system OSP:  List manager Lumos, The_dragon
     https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,341079.0.html  

  Sea Traders        - Duh & Caba'Drin   then extended by GSanders
     https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,163671.0.html    

  Mordechai: prisoner talk OSP  
     http://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,8652.msg5059330.html#msg5059330

  Female Faces OSP   - Corprus
  Women's armors     - Corprus

  Grenades OSP       - Beaver, then changed by ScreamingCommie  and Duskvoyager
     http://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,331756.0.html

  Battle Mini-map OSP: Rubik

  Dunde -Dynamic Troop Trees OSP
    https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,213497.0.html

  Economy changes         GSanders
  Trade routes remade     GSanders
  enhanced water to land icon flip: GSanders
  fast racial prejudice   GSanders
  remade kingdom parties  GSanders
  
  Encumbrance check    Windyplains, modified from Silverstag
    memory slots assistance: Windyplains   slots.xls in Silverstag

  Wife as a companion OSP: Lathrael
    https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,171729.0.html

  PBOD Caba'drin 
    https://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,141283.0.html

  W.R.E.C.K. by Lav, 
    http://forums.taleworlds.com/index.php/topic,325102.0.html
pegasus armory konrad
LOTR Docm30
Elven weaponry Addonay
weapons of darkness dimastrick
TESIV weapons Credit to various:
http://www.nexusmods.com/mountandblade/mods/2001/?tab=1&navtag=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nexusmods.com%2Fmountandblade%2Fajax%2Fmoddescription%2F%3Fid%3D2001%26preview%3D&pUp=1
rubik for the troop tree presentation
Alex_NG for thePermanent Camps
Biiger Jarl for some texture changes
Polloio and Captain Freakout for character creation blurbs

James Dillon scene contributions: 

All Dwarven castles and towns interiors and exteriors. Bugmans Brewery village. 
All Chaos castles and towns interiors and exteriors. Selected villages. 
All Skaven castles and towns interiors and exteriors. All villages.
All High Elf castles and towns interiors and exteriors (except Tower of Hoeth). All unique villages.
All Wood Elf castles and towns interiors and exteriors.
All Goblin castles and towns interiors and exteriors.
All Beastmen castles and towns interiors and exteriors.
All Lizardmen castles. All Lizardmen castle and town interiors.  
Empire castles and towns: Marienburg, Middenheim, Talabheim, Altdorf, Nuln, Castle Reikgard, Wolfenburg, Castle Berbres. Altdorf castle interior. 
Orc castles and towns: Iron Rock, Karak Eight Peaks, Da Mighty Fist, Grom Peak town interior,   
Dark elf castles and towns: Clar Karond, Naggarond, Dark Elf castle interiors, Dark elf town taverns.
Other castles and towns: Khemri, Lashiek, Pirate King Fortress, Mousillon, Castle Drakanehof, Drakenhof town interior and exterior.
Captain Melon Scene contributions
Tower of Hoeth, Black Fortress, Boar Fangz, an orc village and some contributions to Iron Rock and the Dark Elf scenes.

Gsanders:
Ship icon over water
New economy/enterprises (an enormous amount of work went into this)
Gender dialogues
Sea traders
Drowning code and enhanced dodging
Optimised code for mod performance
Optimised list system
Racial prejudice system which effects prisoner recruit and party morale
implemented mini map
Increased cheat mode reports
Implemented troop tree viewer
Increased kingdom parties
and many more vital under the hood changes to many areas of coding.


Faces by Corpus
Fantasy OSP by Kirill

If I have forgotten anyone please contact asap



---------------------------

Credits for past updates:
Thank you to all of the modders of Taleworlds and mount & blade for models, osp packs and coding etc,
Big thanks to the TLD team for making their mod OSP it has been very helpful to us.
Caba'drin Pre-Battle Orders & Deployment
Motomataru Formation coding
Ruthven, Caba'drin and Duh for Sea Battles
Trade Goods Mod by Lav
Freelancer Mod by taragoth, Caba'drin, Duh, Sunhawken, Monnikje, Sayd Ûthman and Swordyke
MadVader, Caba'drin and kt0 for after death cam and battle continues
Delzaros for UI Pack
Veleran for troll
Bloc for Northerner Horses
TES4-OSP-Weapons by Nexxon
items and armour from Age of False Innocence by Shredzorz
Wheene and Nema for original base orc models from the daydream mod.
Nema and team for daydream weapons pack
Highlander for boar mount
Barfs Skeletons and Skeleton mount
Spak OSP_Items pack and rigging some models for us.
surrealarms
zombies heads,Ogre body,skull masks,skin shields by -IYI-O-R-T-
lots of banners from Requests for custom banners and The Hall of Heraldry topics thanks all of the banner makers there.
Narf's Plate Armour Pack
Narf's_transitional_armour_pack
Narf's Men at arms pack
Flintlock Firearms OSP by Llew
CounterPoint391 for the shurikens and Coloured Lances
Faradons item pack
All from the communityhelms team.
Runico for special weapons models etc
Lui for Swords osp
Ficus's Roman Pack osp
some coding for hand cannon, camel and textures etc from Blood_and_Steel by xenoargh
Some orc banner art by Sumicus
Sib_Helms
Sonyer's item pack thanks to Sonyer, Narf , rgcotl , sumskilz , Sarrie
Njunja osp pack
Goat from Brytenwalda mod
dog model from 3dmodelfree.com
mackie_weapons_OSP
Count of Flanders added credits
CD Projekt's and LordOfWar for empire helmets
Jan Tuma´s Sturmhaube helmets
Mr. Dave empire hats
Horla added credits
- Emanuel Palalic for his Tomb Kings props
- Arsakes for his High Elves props
- ThaneWulfgharn for his Empire buildings and Dark Elves buildings meshes
- AlMansur for his french buildings for the Empire and some medieval props
- 15th_century_weapons by Shredzorz
- ado's fantasy_scene_props
- the TLD team for their props, amazing coding and inspiration
- the 16th Century mod team for their Aztec props and scenes
- Galloper on the TWC forums for his ready-to-use pack of voices from Mark of Chaos
- James Dillon for his incredible work on the Skaven scenes, Mousillon and some others
- Gorgutz for his dedicated work on the Orc scenes
- Kazzan for his Empire scenes and Orc camp

Our thread for this mod with more info can be found here
Forums.taleworlds.com
Warsword Disclaimer
This mod is completely unofficial and in no way endorsed by Games Workshop Limited.The Chaos devices, the Chaos logo, Citadel, Citadel Device, the Double-Headed/Imperial Eagle device, 'Eavy Metal, Forge World, Games Workshop, Games Workshop logo, Golden Demon, Great Unclean One, the Hammer of Sigmar logo, Horned Rat logo, Keeper of Secrets, Khemri, Khorne, Lord of Change, Nurgle, Skaven, the Skaven symbol devices, Slaanesh, Tomb Kings, Trio of Warriors, Twin Tailed Comet Logo, Tzeentch, Warhammer, Warhammer Online, Warhammer World logo, White Dwarf, the White Dwarf logo, and all associated marks, names, races, race insignia, characters, vehicles, locations, units, illustrations and images from the Warhammer world are either ®, TM and/or © Copyright Games Workshop Ltd 2000-2010, variably registered in the UK and other countries around the world. Used without permission. No challenge to their status intended. All Rights Reserved to their respective owners.
Sub mods

Sub mod rules
You must contact Nameless Warrior for permission to release a sub mod and send a list of the changes you have made in your sub mod.
All of the Warsword Conquest resources including models, textures, scenes and anything else the team has made for the mod can only be used for a sub mod of Warsword Conquest unless express permission is given.
You must have a link to Warsword conquest on your opening page and state that it is a sub mod for Warsword conquest.
Please do not ask for the module system as we will not be releasing it.
Remember to always give appropriate credit to all those who made Warsword Conquest and any OSP we have used as well as any OSP you have added yourself.
Any models or changes made in a sub mod can be put into the main Warsword Conquest mod by us, we will contact you and give you credit of course.
Please note: We are unable to help with the creation of sub mods as we have limited time to mod ourselves. 
